Need a central repository of footguns (unintuitive or unexpected behavior)
for inclusion in writeup and docs for new users. This file is a temporary
measure; TODO move to proper writeup.

1:
Case does not behave like in Haskell or Erlang: there is no branching on
nested fallible patterns, instead case only branches on the top-level tag
to select a case, then reverts if any of that case's subpatterns fail to
match.

Example:
xs = Cons 1 (Cons 2 Nil)
case xs of
 Cons x Nil => foo()
 Cons x (Cons y xs') => bar()
--The above code reverts: only the first Cons pattern is considered during
compilation. Control flows to case 1, where x,Nil are assigned to
xs.head (1) and xs.tail (Cons 2 Nil); the latter fails to match and so the
code reverts.

This is part design choice, part compiler simplification.
Case on nested patterns must be implemented by scrutinizing one constructor 
at a time, so to support multiple cases with fallthrough to the next on match
failure one must choose an order in which to scrutinize them.
For a list of integers like xs, that's simple enough (there is only one
order assuming no support for integer literal patterns) - but consider
case pair of
 (True,False) => ...
 _ => ...
Now the compiler must choose whether to check pair.fst or pair.snd, a
nontrivial decision; which is optimal depends on the probability 
distributions of the respective values.
Haskell makes the choice using heuristics (cf Peyton Jones' STG paper), but
as a non-real-time language running on conventional hardware it faces 
different design constraints from EVMC.
Since EVMC targets a resource-constrained, performance-critical environment, 
it cannot afford to leave choices that influence performance to compiler 
discretion or luck; instead it leaves them to the programmer.

2:
Arrays are unboxed values.
If you define a memory global
"
arr : Array 256 Word
memory arr;
"
then referring to arr rather than &arr will (attempt to) load all 256 words
onto the stack.
"arr!ix = 1" will fail, because the compiler rejects array index assignment
to arrays larger than a word. Instead you must write
"*(&(arr!ix)) = 1", which first computes the address of arr!ix and then
performs a pointer assignment to it.

This design error resulted from EVMC's design goals (elegance, low-level 
control) colliding with the quirks of the EVM.
In a conventional architecture, most objects are in memory, registers play
the role of the stack, and memory loads are both common and cheap (as long
as they hit the cache). Arrays live in memory, and if you want to fetch an
int to manipulate from one you just perform a load.
A memory load is still pretty cheap on the EVM, but it's 
resource-constrained enough that it's worth making memory ops such as
derefs and allocation visible to the programmer.
I therefore chose to make EVMC types unboxed by default.
I also thought it would be elegant to represent all types as fixed-size
unboxed types, allowing array globals to be declared using the same compiler
logic as scalar types. That may have been a mistake.

How to rectify?
Because the EVM only allows access to the top 17 stack words and has no
opcodes for dynamic stack slot access, indexing of multi-word unboxed arrays 
is inevitably inefficient for >1 word and impossible for >17.
*arrPtr!ix = k --could be supported anyway, but that introduces unintuitive
non-compositional behavior where an array index write may or may not raise
a compile-time error based on whether the array pattern refers to memory.
One solution would be to add sugar for boxed array indexing (e.g. !! as
opposed to ! for small unboxed arrays); then support for declaring boxed
arrays would need to be added to global layout logic.

3. Failing pattern matches revert the EVM CALL; there is no call-local
exception handling. That's pretty much inevitable given EVMC is a low-level
EVM language, but it could still be surprising.

4. String literals are unboxed arrays of bytes; if you want to efficiently
allocate a long in-memory string, you must do:
code codeStr = "A string allocated to code";
main() := {
 var memStr = alloc 1;
 copy(memStr,codeStr,1)
}
var memStr = alloc 1;
*memStr = *codeStr --would also work, but it would alloc the codeStr to
scratch memory, mload that to the stack and then mstore it back one word at
a time. I haven't yet implemented *COPY-based optimization of *from = *to.
Since arrays have a length type parameter, the following code will error:
var str = "I have one length!"
str = "But I have another length!"

5. Alloc is just a bump allocator. Various functions (such as deref for code)
use memAllocPtr as scratch memory, so there's no guarantee newly alloc'd
memory is zero unless you're careful about scratch alloc.

6. Locals can't shadow globals or functions: if a global x is declared, it
changes the meaning of any function which uses x as a param, usually
triggering a type error.
The problem stems from assignments modifying preexisting values
(incl globals) rather than binding new ones a la Haskell.
It could be solved for locals by allowing shadowing var x statements, but
that wouldn't work for function params unless you allowed a var keyword in
patterns.
That would also require more complex desugaring; currently globals in
patterns and exprs are desugared to a deref without regard for the
surrounding local scope.
For now, just avoid using one-letter global or function names such as x, f.
Problem demo: Stdlib/Test/Shadowing.evmc
"import Prelude; import Test.Shadowing; main():=()" will error with a
unification error in testFun.
